# Installation

## Requirements

Corydalis is built using Haskell and the Yesod framework, which means
it has a lot of build dependencies; therefore, for source builds, the
simplest way is to use the
[stack](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/README/) tool.

It uses [ImageMagick](https://www.imagemagick.org/) to generate the
correctly-sized images for the client and
[ExifTool](https://www.sno.phy.queensu.ca/~phil/exiftool/) to extract
the EXIF/IPTC/XMP information from the source pictures, and
[ffmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) to extract movie information.

It also uses sqlite (via Haskell bindings), so you might need to have
devel libraries for it.

Because of the way the image viewer works with clients (sending
appropriately-sized images, instead of relying on in-client scaling),
and due to extraction of metadata from all images, it also needs a
relatively large cache space for itself; for my own usage, with two
pre-rendered resolutions, this amounts to around 10% of the actual
library space. Also, currently there's no cache maintenance yetâ€¦

All the pre-rendering and exif extraction needs as well quite a bit of
CPU; on my own collection, a cold start will probably take many hours
(for initial, required EXIF gathering) and follow-up work possibly a
day or so (for the pre-rendering).

Being a web application, it also has a quite a bit of JavaScript
dependencies. However, these are distributed with the application, so
there's no need to do anything, unless you want to use newer version
of them; just update the files in the `static/` subdirectory. See the
[embedded libraries](embeddedlibs.md) doc for details.

## Building from source

Using stack:

    $ stack build
    $ stack install --local-bin-path /path/to/target
    $ cp -a static /path/to/target/


That should be it about the "build" phase, although if you don't
already have a stack work space, this will take a bit of time and CPU.

This step will generate three binaries:

- `corydalis`, the main application; this is what you will run later.
- `db-util`, a tool to set the users in the database; you will need
  this to initialise the first user(s).
- `scanner`, which is an internal tool and shouldn't be of much use.

## Completing the installation

Create a few needed directories:

    $ cd /path/to/target
    $ mkdir config db

At runtime, the application depends on ImageMagick and exiftool, so
make sure to install them before you run the application, e.g.:

    $ sudo apt-get install imagemagick libimage-exiftool-perl

The application is configured to work only over https; as such, you
must install the certificate in `config/cert.pem` and the key in
`config/cert.key` in the target directory:

    $ mkdir /path/to/target/config
    $ cp cert.pem cert.key /path/to/target/config

Install the sample configuration file from the source code:

    $ cp config/settings.yml.sample /path/to/target/settings.yml

## Basic configuration

The `settings.yml` file has comments on the configuration
keys. Basically there are only three main that really need
configuration:

- where source (RAW) files live
- where the processed output (JPEGs) live
- what should be the cache directory

The application uses a database to store users for authentication;
normally I expect only one or at most a few users - family - to be
defined, but it was easier to use a database than (e.g.) something
like htpasswd. The `db-util` tool can add users:

    $ ./db-util -c /path/to/target/config add <USER>

This will prompt for the password and then add (or update, if the user
already existed) the user. It can also list and delete users.

When first run, the tool will automatically create (or update, on
upgrade) the required database tables.

## Running corydalis

Once the configuration is updated, simply run the application:

    $ cd /path/to/target
    $ ./corydalis settings.yml

Note that at the first run, it will start scanning the configured
directories and parse metadata, so it will take a long while - maybe
up to hours - for the initial run to finish, depending on both CPU and
disk I/O for your storage.

I've also seen that due to the nontrivial amount of memory used by all
the filename tracking, the periodic idle GCs use non-trivial amount of
CPU time; increasing the idle GC timeout helps - I use slightly more
than one minute:

    $ ./corydalis +RTS -I63

### Note about the session key

The application needs a session key for the client session cookies. If
the file `config/client_session_key.aes` does not exist, it will be
automatically created; however, deleting it and restarting the binary
will invalidate any existing sessions.
